Something that probably we haven't
talked a little bit about yet,
but notice that these
are on different lines.
This is actually just purely
from me as the developer, right?
If I hit Enter a bunch of times here, so
there's a bunch of what we
would call whitespace here.
Notice, this isn't getting
a lot more spaced out.
Actually, it is for a different reason.
But typically, this whitespace
is not actually significant.
Yeah, I forgot these are in
preformatted code blocks.
Typically, though, in HTML,
the amount of whitespace is not important.
So yeah, okay, cool.
Let's talk about anchor tags.
Anchor tags are links, right?
So if I wanted to send you to
a different web page, so, and
I think we kind of intuit this already.
If you look at this and you saw this
on a page, right, Frontend Masters,
Visual Studio Code, CodePen,
you would know because these are colored
differently and they're underlined.
And there's the little pointer
guy whenever you hover over it,
that's a link, right?
That goes somewhere.
So if I click on this, right,
it takes me to frontendmaster.com, right?
That is what a link does.
So the a, which stands for anchor,
not that you really need to care,
you've just caught an a tag,
that's what I do.
Then this little href bit here,
which is called an attribute.
There's a whole section of attributes, so
we'll talk more about that here in a bit.
But the href identifies where it goes,
right?
So this goes to www.frontendmasters.com.
And then here, between this is actually
what's displayed to the user, right?
So if I hover over this, it doesn't
actually say frontendmasters.com, it just
says Frontend Masters, but if I click
on it, it takes me to Frontend Masters.
Same thing here with the VS Code one and
the same thing here with CodePen.
So that's the way that you link various
different things, is using a tags, Okay?
Let's talk about divs,
which is short for division.
I like to think of divs
like cardboard boxes.
A cardboard box is more
defined by what's in it than
the cardboard box itself, right?
The most interesting part of a cardboard
box is not the box, unless you're a cat.
It's more what's inside of
the box that makes a difference.
So here, I just put a random div here so
that you can see.
Here, I just made it a red square,
using a little bit of CSS here,
which again will have
a whole section on CSS.
But in and of itself,
if I just do div like this,
This is an empty cardboard box,
there's literally nothing in it.
I have to put something in it for
it to be interesting.
So now, I have a cardboard
box that has a heading in it.
That's way more interesting
than an empty cardboard box.
So a div, which is a division, is
basically you're identifying this part of
something is distinct from something else.
It's a generic divider between something.
It'd be like, if you had a filing cabinet,
you put dividers between your various
different types of files, right?
So we'll use them a lot.
It's actually one of the most common
tags you use, because typically,
you have a lot of divisions of various
different sorts of things in your code.
But in and of themselves,
they don't do anything,
they're defined by what they're in.
This will make a lot of sense
once we start getting into CSS,
because you'll use divs and
CSS together to move things around to
make them different colors,
all those sorts of stuff.
So again, this div here, it's defined
by style and what I put on it.
I basically took a marker and
made a pretty div.
But I can put things inside of it as well,
which is what I just did there.
Right, cool.
So that's a div.
By the same token,
there is this thing called the span.
So if a div is a cardboard box,
a span is a Ziploc bag,
it's a much smaller idea of a div.
So you can see here,
I have this bit of text here.
So this is a paragraph of text here,
this is important text, but
I wanted to really emphasize important.
So what I did here is I put important
into a Ziploc bag using a span, right?
So you use it to emphasize
different parts of text, or
just denote that this bit of text is
different than the rest of the text.
And then you can use things like CSS or
JavaScript to make
the individual span do things.
But it's gives you basically a hook to
hook on to some specific piece of text.
If I take off this style portion here,
this important part still in a span,
right?
It's still here, but
I just haven't done anything with it.
So basically,
I put a little hook on it, and
I didn't do anything with the hook, right?
So you need to do something with it
before the span is actually useful.
So I just made it underline
something using a bit of style here.
This is CSS, again,
we have a whole section on it, so
don't worry necessarily about that.
I want to show you want you
can do with the span, Okay?
Let's talk about ordered lists,
unordered list, and list items.
So you'll see ol and ul tags, stands for
ordered list and unordered list,
and it's exactly what it sounds like,
it's just a list of information.
So if I look down here,
I have this bit of information.
So you can see here the 1, 2, 3, the first
one, the second one, and the third one,
and that just looks like this.
I have an ol with three different li's.
So the ol denotes that this
is a list of stuff, right?
And inside of the list, I'll have various
different list items, the li's, right?
The first one, the second one,
the third one.
So notice, I didn't actually say 1, 2,
3, I didn't put that anywhere, right?
By making it an ordered list,
those just show up automatically, right?
Cuz I'm making a list and
checking it twice, okay?
So an ol is an ordered list.
And you use an ordered list when
the order is important, right?
If I put the first one here,
and then the second one here,
that doesn't make any sense.
I've now since lost the sense of order, so
this ol doesn't apply anymore,
doesn't make any sense.
So you use the ol when order is important,
right?
If I was gonna list out, I don't know,
the past ten winners of the MBA,
there's an order to that, right?
And if I switched the order,
then the list would no longer be correct.
So that's kind of the thought
process that you should use to
determine if you should use an ol or ul.
Is that if I switch the order
of two of these things,
will the list still be correct?
If that's true,
that means that there's no order,
then you use an unordered list, a ul.
So here, notice that these are bullet
points, which implied no sense of order.
I could swap any one of these, an item
in the list and other items in the list,
blah, blah, blah,
doesn't matter which one comes first.
So this is a good candidate to
be used with an unordered list.
So again, anything that's a list
of things, you'll use a list,
whether it's unordered or ordered.
Cool.
A button, as you may have guessed,
is a button.
So you can see here, I have this Click me
button, it doesn't do anything, right?
But that's how you create buttons in HTML,
is with the button tag.
So you can think of this button like a
doorbell that someone installed on a house
and didn't actually hook up to anything.
It's a button,
you can totally press the doorbell,
it just not gonna do anything, right?
I've installed my doorbell
on this particular page,
I just never hooked it up to anything, so
if you click the button, nothing happens.
In other words, typically,
you need JavaScript for
the button to react to something.
Question mark, yeah,
it doesn't do anything.
But these are just good things that
you can show to users like, hey,
you should click this because
it's gonna do something, right?
If you had like a form
on a checkout page and
you have a checkout button that
you're telling the user, hey,
click me, I'm gonna do that action
that the button says, right?
Okay, let's talk about image tags,
which are img tags.
So, some people kinda get confused,
it's like, shouldn't image live in CSS,
it's like it's style, right?
But think about it, if you go to
Instagram, right, a social media site for
images, the content of
Instagram is the images, right?
So normally belongs in the content, the
images typically will live in your HTML.
Because that was really confusing
to me when I was starting,
I was like,
why am I putting my style in my HTML?
Particularly with images,
they belong more to the content
than they belong to the style.
You can sometimes use images with CSS,
and we'll talk about that,
but you can make background images.
But look at the dotted background
here on my website, that would be
a good candidate for a background
image as opposed to a content image.
And I'm talking content images more
like if you go to the newspaper, and
you're reading the newspaper, there's
a big image of whatever the top story is.
That's content, right,
that's part of the story.
That should live in your HTML, okay?
So I have three image tags here of my
best doggo, Luna, very cute doggy.
She's kind of a jerk, I love her.
The way I do that is I've an image tag,
you give it an src, which stands for
source, as you might imagine.
You tell it where it lives, right?
So this is just an address, right?
So if I copy and
paste this into a different tab, right,
this is actually a valid address
on the Internet for Luna, okay?
And I give it an alt text, so an alt
text is if someone is hard of seeing or
blind, they can tab over this and
obviously they can't see the image, right?
So the screen reader will tell
them what you put here in the alt.
So I'm gonna say, technically,
it is valid to leave these off.
But I'm going to tell you that
if you have an image tag,
you should always put an alt text.
It's just the ethical thing to do so
that everyone can enjoy the Internet.
The Internet is for everybody, okay?
Now, notice here, these are self-closing
tags, which we talked about, right?
Because there's nothing
inside of the image, right?
The image is just a tag unto itself, so
that's why you're gonna
put this slash here.
And technically, it is optional,
you can leave it off.
I just choose to put it
on there because to me,
it makes it more clear
what I'm trying to do.
One more thing about alt text,
Google and Bing will index it.
So Google will crawl your website,
it'll find all those alt texts,
and will index your images
based on that as well.
So alt text is always a good idea, okay?
So you can see there, I mean, you can
see here, I'm putting a lot of random
whitespace in these, it's totally fine for
you to just do something like that, right?
The spacing here is totally optional.
In fact, you might even argue,
might be clearer if everything
was all on the same line.
That is up to you.